# Simple Url Shortener

I had to make a url shortener for an app recently and decided to turn it into a package! I hope you enjoy it.

I've made a short video tutorial for adding this package to your app so feel to check that out [here](http://youtube.com) or you can follow the instructions below.

## Getting Started

Add the package:

```
meteor add ryanswapp:url-shortener
```

This package assumes you are using the Iron Router for routing so you will also need to set that up if you haven't already.

Next you need to use the 'url-shortener/shorten' method wherever you plan to shorten urls. Let's say you have an input with a class of '.url-to-shorten' on the home page in which users can put a regular url and then when they click a button with a class of '.shorten' the link will be shortened. The code would look like this:

```
Template.Home.events({
  'click .shorten': function(e, tmpl) {
    e.preventDefault();

    // Grab the url from the input it is stored in and put it into
    // an object to pass in to the url-shortener/shorten method
    var urlObj = {
      long_url: $('.url-to-shorten').val()
    }


    Meteor.call('url-shortener/shorten', urlObj, function(err, res) {
      if (err) {
        throw new Meteor.Error('Bad Url', 'That is a bad url');
      } else {
        $('.url-to-shorten').val('');
      }

    });


  }
});
```

This code will validate the entered url, and if it is a valid url, will return a response object with a 'path' property. The 'path' property's value is equal to the short url string created for the regular url (e.g. 'dRcjE'). I generally set a session variable like this in order to display the short url to the user:

```
Session.set('shortUrl', Meteor.absoluteUrl() + 's/' + res.path);
```

And that should be all you need to get set up! Check the video tutorial [here](http://youtube.com) if you run into any trouble.

## More Info

This package exposes the UrlShortener object to both the client and server so that you can query the ShortUrls collection from either. This is what the default UrlShortener object looks like:

````
UrlShortener = {
    collection: new Mongo.Collection('short_urls'),
    options: {
      bad_url: '',
      prefix: Meteor.absoluteUrl(),
      url_length: 5
    }
}
````

You can customize the options by adding them in a ```Meteor.startup()``` function in the lib folder like so:

```
Meteor.startup(function() {
  UrlShortener.options.bad_url = "bad-urls";
  UrlShortener.options.url_length = 10;
});
```

As previously mentioned, this code needs to be in the lib folder (or anywhere other than the client or server folders).

### The Url

I initially was using ```/:_id``` as the path for redirects but ran into too many problems with it catching other routes so I changed the short url route to ```/s/:_id```. So, if you generate a new short url with a path of 'sXrtf' a user can visit 'http://your_url/s/sXrtf' and they will be redirected to the route this short url points to.

### Options

Here are a list of the options that exist and how you should use them.

#### bad_url

```
UrlShortener.options.bad_url
```

The default for this option is a blank string. This means that if a user tries to go to a short url that is not found they will be redirected to your apps home page. If you would like to route them to a particular template you must first add a route in your routes file:

```
Router.route('/bad-urls', {
  name: 'BadUrls'
});
```

You next need to configure the 'bad_url' option to point to this route:

```
Meteor.startup(function() {
  UrlShortener.options.bad_url = "bad-urls";
});
```

Now, when someone tries to go to a short url that doesn't exist they will be redirected to this template. Note that I am setting the 'bad_url' option to the relative path of the template.

#### prefix

```
UrlShortener.options.prefix
```

If for some reason you need to change the prefix (the root url that will be added before the bad_url option) you can do it like so:

```
Meteor.startup(function() {
  UrlShortener.options.prefix = "http://your_url/";
});
```

#### url_length

```
UrlShortener.options.url_length
```

This option sets the length of the short url string. The short url string (e.g. http://yoururl/s/eRtdY) is based off the random id generated by the database. You can set that option like so:

```
Meteor.startup(function() {
  UrlShortener.options.url_length = 10;
});
```

## Final Words

Please open an issue if you questions or suggestions as to how I can improve the package. Thanks!
